# Blogmaker

This is an ultra-simple self-hosted blog publishing solution made by Vitalik Buterin..

### Dependencies

* pandoc
* rsync

### Pasos a seguir

1. Save the .md file in the "posts" folder in the root folder
1. Generate the .html file with the command ("python3 publish.py posts/name_file.md") in the root folder.
1. With the command ("pandoc --mathjax name_file.md -o name_file.html") we generate the html file with the text and the formulas ready to be added to the html generated by step 2
1. Go to site/general and find the html generated in step 2 and add the information in the html generated in step 3 to the file generated in step 2.
1. We go back to the root folder and run the following command("python3 publish.py --sync") so that these changes are updated on the server and are officially published on the website for everyone to see
1. When reviewing the web page, if we see that there is any error with the topics tags we must check that there is not the name "toc-category" between the names of the classes of each tag because by default after executing publish.py if a new tag is created by default is assigned the name of the class "toc-category" (I have to see how to edit publish.py to create a custom tag in the future).

### How to use

See the [posts](./posts) directory for what a post should look like. Posts must be written in [markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax), and filenames must end in ".md". Dates must be in (yyyy/mm/dd) format. All posts must be in the posts directory.

If you need a post to use MathJaX to format LaTeX equations, add the line

```
[pandoc]: <> (--mathjax)
```

to the config at the top of the post.

To compile a post to html, run `./publish.py posts/name_of_post.md` (or `./publish.py posts/*` to recompile everything). Use `./publish.py --sync` to upload the latest version of your site to your server (make sure to put your server details, as well as the site title and icon, in [config.md](./config.md)).

For the server, the simplest setup is to use any VPS, `apt install apache2`, make sure apache2 is running, and just set the directory to /var/www/html.

### Commands
```
python3 publish.py posts/name_file.md
pandoc --mathjax name_file.md -o name_file.html
python3 publish.py --sync
```


### Misc

Credit to https://hackmd.io for CSS styles.
